Adding Canvas2D article (#2026)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/blog/canvas2d/index.md

---
title: "It's always been you, Canvas2D"
description: >
  The API-next-door gets a makeover.
layout: 'layouts/blog-post.njk'
authors:
  - aaronhk

> date: 2022-01-28

Author: ```suggestion
date: 2022-002-02
```

> date: 2022-02-02

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2022-02-03
```

hero: 'image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/Qr1BTg23IMo4QNsGJWg6.jpg'
alt: >
  A collection of canvases in various shades of blue.
tags:
  - new-in-chrome
---

In a world of shaders, meshes, and filters, Canvas2D might not get you excited. 
But it should! 30-40% of web pages have a `<canvas>` element and 98% of all canvases use a Canvas2D rendering context. 
There are Canvas2Ds in cars, on fridges, [and in space](https://lithiosapps.com/a-look-under-the-hood-of-spacexs-dragon-capsule/) (really).

Admittedly, the API is a bit behind the times when it comes to state-of-the-art 2D drawing. 
Fortunately we've been hard at work implementing new features in Canvas2D to catch up to CSS, streamline ergonomics and improve performance. 

## Part 1: Catching Up With CSS

CSS has a few drawing commands that are sorely missing from Canvas2D. With the new API we've added a handful of the most requested features:

> ### Round Rect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Round rect
```

Rounded rectangles: the cornerstone of the internet, of computing, nigh, of civilization! 

In all seriousness, rounded rectangles are extremely useful: as buttons, chat bubbles, thumbnails, speech bubbles, you name it. It's always been possible to make a rounded rectangle in Canvas2D, it's just been a bit messy:

```js
  const canvas = document.getElementById("canvas");
  const ctx = canvas.getContext("2d");
  ctx.fillStyle = “magenta”;

  const top = 10;
  const left = 10;
  const width = 200;
  const height = 100;
  const radius = 20;

  ctx.beginPath();
  ctx.moveTo(left + radius, top);
  ctx.lineTo(left + width - radius, top);
  ctx.arcTo(left + width, top, left + width, top + radius, radius);  
  ctx.lineTo(left + width, top + height - radius);
  ctx.arcTo(
left + width, top + height, left + width - radius, 
top + height, radius);
  ctx.lineTo(left + radius, top + height);
  ctx.arcTo(left, top + height, left, top + height - radius, radius)
  ctx.lineTo(left, top + radius);
  ctx.arcTo(left, top, left + radius, top, radius)
  ctx.stroke();
```

> All this was necessary for a modest simple rounded rectangle:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All this was necessary for a modest, simple rounded rectangle:
```

{% Img src="image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/J9JnDFq28BhDGsMyw2zY.png", alt="A rounded rectangle.", width="300", height="150" %}

With the new API there's a `roundRect()` method.

```js
	ctx.roundRect(upper, left, width, height, borderRadius);

	So the above can be wholly replaced by:

	ctx.roundRect(10, 10, 200, 100, 20);
```

> 	`ctx.roundRect()` also can take in an array for the `borderRadius` argument of up to four numbers. These radii control the four corners of the rounded rectangle the same way [as for CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius). For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	`ctx.roundRect()` also takes in an array for the `borderRadius` argument of up to four numbers. These radii control the four corners of the rounded rectangle the same way [as for CSS](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/border-radius). For example:
```

```js
	ctx.roundRect(10, 10, 200, 100, [15, 50, 30])
```

[Check out the demo to play around](https://pickle-gorgeous-treatment.glitch.me/)!

### Conic Gradient

> You've seen linear gradients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've seen linear gradients:
```

```js
  const gradient = ctx.createLinearGradient(0, 0, 200, 100);
  gradient.addColorStop(0, "blue");
  gradient.addColorStop(0.5, "magenta");
  gradient.addColorStop(1, "white");
  ctx.fillStyle = gradient;
  ctx.fillRect(10, 10, 200, 100);
```

{% Img src="image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/rkG4JDoOC42xn7szSZbL.png", alt="A linear gradient.", width="300", height="150" %}

> Radial gradients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Radial gradients:
```

```js
  const radialGradient = ctx.createRadialGradient(150, 75, 10, 150, 75, 70);
  radialGradient.addColorStop(0, "white");
  radialGradient.addColorStop(0.5, "magenta");
  radialGradient.addColorStop(1, "lightblue");

  ctx.fillStyle = radialGradient;
  ctx.fillRect(0, 0, canvas.width, canvas.height);
```

{% Img src="image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/NF89ac1lvs6jb2kxTAja.png", alt="A radial gradient.", width="300", height="150" %}

> but how about a nice conic gradient?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But how about a nice conic gradient?
```

```js
const grad = ctx.createConicGradient(0, 100, 100);

grad.addColorStop(0, "red");
grad.addColorStop(0.25, "orange");
grad.addColorStop(0.5, "yellow");
grad.addColorStop(0.75, "green");
grad.addColorStop(1, "blue");

ctx.fillStyle = grad;
ctx.fillRect(0, 0, 200, 200);
```

{% Img src="image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/s05ut90JNhvLywJ9Sb9b.png", alt="A conic gradient.", width="451", height="329" %}

> ### Text Modifiers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Text modifiers
```

Canvas2Ds text rendering capabilities have been woefully behind. 

> Chrome is pleased to announce the addition of a whole whack of new attributes to Canvas2D text rendering:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Chrome has implemented several new attributes to Canvas2D text rendering:
```

> Chrome is pleased to announce the addition of a whole whack of new attributes to Canvas2D text rendering:

Reviewer: >Chrome is pleased to announce

The definitions below are part of the HTML spec. This wording makes it sound like these are Chrome-specific. They look web platform to me.

Author: Yeah, maybe something like "Chrome has implemented a whole new ..."

Reviewer: Sounds good.

- ctx.[letterSpacing](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/letter-spacing)
- ctx.[wordSpacing](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/word-spacing)
- ctx.[fontVariant](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/font-variant)
- ctx.[fontKerning](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/font-kerning)
- ctx.[fontStretch](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/font-stretch)
- ctx.[textDecoration](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/text-decoration)
- ctx.[textUnderlinePosition](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/text-underline-position)
- ctx.[textRendering](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/text-rendering)

These attributes all match their CSS counterparts with the same names.

> ## Part 2: Ergonomic Tweaks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Part 2: ergonomic tweaks
```

> Some things with Canvas2D are possible, but needlessly complicated to implement. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, some things with Canvas2D were possible, but needlessly complicated to implement. 
```

Here are some quality-of-life improvements for javascript developers who want to use Canvas2D:

### context.reset()

To explain clearing a canvas, I've written a silly little [function to draw a retro pattern](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/wax-rapid-antlion):

```js
draw90sPattern();
```

{% Img src="image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/KRHLGxmk98zv8mSEWdPI.png", alt="A retro pattern of triangles and squares.", width="500", height="500" %}

> Great! Now that I'm  done with that pattern, I want to clear the canvas and draw something else. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Great! Now that I'm done with that pattern, I want to clear the canvas and draw something else. 
```

```html
<svg>
    <defs>
     <filter id="svgFilter">
       <feGaussianBlur in="SourceGraphic" stdDeviation="5"/>
       <feConvolveMatrix kernelMatrix="-3 0 0 0 0.5 0 0 0 3"/>
       <feColorMatrix type="hueRotate" values="90"/>
     </filter>
    </defs>
 </svg>
 ```

```js
  const canvas = document.createElement("canvas");
  canvas.width = 500;
  canvas.height = 400;
  const ctx = canvas.getContext("2d");
  document.body.appendChild(canvas);

  ctx.filter = "url('#svgFilter')";
  draw90sPattern(ctx);
```

Which messes up our pattern pretty good:

{% Img src="image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/IPgddXUAwJFZzowzdxtx.png", alt="The retro pattern with a blurred effect applied.", width="500", height="500" %}

But, what if you wanted to do the above but stay within JavaScript and not mess around with strings? With the new API, this is totally possible.

```js
  ctx.filter = new CanvasFilter([
    {filter: "gaussianBlur", stdDeviation: 5},
    {filter: "convolveMatrix",
      kernelMatrix: [
        [-3, 0, 0],
        [0, 0.5, 0],
        [0, 0, 3]]
    },
    {filter: "colorMatrix", type: "hueRotate", values: 90},
  ]);
```

> Easy as pie! Try it out with and play with the parameters [in the demo here](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/pretty-dent-titanoceratops).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Easy as pie! Try it and play with the parameters [in the demo here](https://glitch.com/edit/#!/pretty-dent-titanoceratops).
```

> ## Part 3: Performance Improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Part 3: performance improvements
```

With the New Canvas2D API, we also wanted to improve performance where possible. We added a couple features to give developers finer-grained control of their websites and allow for the slickest possible framerates:

### Will Read Frequently

> getImageData() is how you read pixel data back from a canvas. It can be very slow. The new API gives you a way of explicitly marking a canvas for readback (for generative effects, for example). This allows you to optimize things under the hood and keep canvas fast for a larger variety of use cases. This feature has been around in Firefox for a while and we're finally making it part of the canvas spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `getImageData()` to read pixel data back from a canvas. It can be very slow. The new API gives you a way of explicitly marking a canvas for reading back (for generative effects, for example). This allows you to optimize things under the hood and keep canvas fast for a larger variety of use cases. This feature has been in Firefox for a while and we're finally making it part of the canvas spec.
```

```js
const canvas = document.createElement('canvas');
const ctx = canvas.getContext('2d', {‘willReadFrequently': true});
```

> ### Context Loss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Context loss
```
